This project aims to develop a mesoscopic modeling approach for neural networks, inspired by the work of Prof. Wulfram Gerstner's group at EPFL in their paper titled "[Towards a theory of cortical columns: From spiking neurons to interacting neural populations of finite size](https://journals.plos.org/ploscompbiol/article?id=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1005507)". This paper uses mean-field and quasi-renewal approximations to derive a mesoscopic model from generalized integrate-and-fire (GIF) models, offering an efficient method for analyzing cortical circuits and computations.

I have studied this paper in depth and posted my notes on [this website](https://huimiaochen.github.io/Neuroscience/Mesoscopic_Modeling_Project/). My project's primary objective is to reproduce this model and then extend it for simulation-based parameter estimation. By inputting neural activities (e.g., data from real experiments), I aim to estimate network parameters that enable the model to accurately represent the real network's behavior.

Although Gerstner's group has recently published another paper titled "[Mesoscopic modeling of hidden spiking neurons](https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2022/hash/953e742190ca02fc8f9f710052f2fead-Abstract-Conference.html)" that addresses this problem using gradient descent, this method has some limitations. It can often result in locally optimal points and requires significant computation time despite the mesoscopic model's efficiency (as a result, in the paper the example only considers 3 neural populations). Furthermore, for simplification, this work does not consider neuronal adaptation, only refractoriness.

To address these limitations, I propose the following approach: first, run the mesoscopic model, taking into account both refractoriness and adaptation, to generate neural activities for a wide range of network parameters. Next, train an artificial neural network (ANN) using these activities as input and the corresponding parameters as output. Finally, utilize the computationally efficient ANN model to predict the parameters and use them to simulate any desired situation.